---
title: Nobody’s Listening [at] Fear and Loathing of the Online Self
subtitle: ""
fulltitle: Nobody’s Listening [at] Fear and Loathing of the Online Self
status: ""
outputs:
    - HTML
    - Calendar
start_time: "2017-05-23T12:00:00Z"
start_time_utc: 20170523T120000Z
start_time_locations:
    berlin: "2017-05-23T14:00:00+02:00"
    new_york: "2017-05-23T08:00:00-04:00"
    london: "2017-05-23T13:00:00+01:00"
    los_angeles: "2017-05-23T05:00:00-07:00"
end_time: "2017-01-01T12:00:00.000Z"
end_time_utc: 20170523T140000Z
timezone: UTC
tzid: UTC
location: Rome, Italy
isFeatured: false
isOngoing: false
lastmod: "2021-11-02T17:00:40.466Z"
date: "2017-05-23T12:00:00Z"
slug: nobody-8217-s-listening-at-fear-and-loathing-of-the-online-self
---
**Nobody's Listening**

The Future of Secrets is an artistic research project that explores our relationship to and trust in machines, examining the laws and norms for protecting or preserving digital correspondence, and considering what might happen to our secrets now, and in the future. 

The work will take shape as a sound and video installation in Rome.

**Fear and Loathing of the Online Self**<br />
*A SAVAGE JOURNEY INTO THE HEART OF DIGITAL CULTURES*

From <a href="http://networkcultures.org/online-self/about/" target="_blank">conference website</a>

Critical political-economic readings of platform capitalism do not explain nor grasp new forms of online subjectivity. There is a growing gap between the obsessive quest for measurability, big data and algorithmic regimes (such as AI/bots),and critical investigations of an emerging variety of compulsive forms taken by the online self. We need to fill this gap and bring them back together. If a humanities approach of Internet studies nurtured by artistic and activist practices aims to survive the ‘big data’ onslaught from the social sciences, then it is vital to ask what the citizen-as-user wants. To portray the population as (innocent or guilty) victims of the data monopolies is, politically speaking, a dead-end street.

The cynical condition rules: we know we’re under surveillance, yet we continue to click, like, love and share ourselves online as usual. We are told by concerned experts and libertarians that our privacy “matters” and we want to believe it; yet it silently confers a guilty stigma upon another vital need, to engage socially and culturally with others. While some preach the offline escape as a way out, most of us are so deeply invested in the everyday social media life that it is inconceivable for most of us to leave Facebook and the like. And this not only out of desire but necessity: networking and self-sharing has become imperative for succesfully managing the double binds of the immaterial labour economy. Instead, we’d rather deal with peculiar pathologies, such as addiction, depression and solitude generated by hyper-connection and lack of connections.

This conference aims at exploring the state of the online self by raising questions about its status as a focal point of contemporary power/networks. Is the online self merely a product of software predictability and viral marketing? Is there any space left for self-determination? Or should we search elsewhere for new forms resistance by changing our political categories and perspectives? Which contradictions are at play? How and where can we locate the spaces of performativity of the online self?